calling-apis: content (#15)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: calling-apis/post-requests-with-axios.md

# POST Requests With axios

## Introduction

Matteo is making the front-end for the **Ada Trip Reserving Service™**. This service:

1. helps tour guides create Trip packages catered to global travelers
2. helps travelers find Trip packages that fit their needs, and make a reservation for that trip

Matteo's front-end should make calls to [the back-end Ada Trip Reserving Service™ Trip API™™™](https://github.com/AdaGold/trip-api). The first feature he needs to build is enabling users to create new trip packages.

Matteo's first step is to [research the API documentation](https://github.com/AdaGold/trip-api). He'll use the documentation and Postman to answer the following questions:

1. What is the API call that lists all existing Trip packages?
2. How many existing trips are there?
3. What is the API call that creates a new Trip package?
4. What is the verb and URL of that request?
5. What are the required query parameters? What are the optional query parameters?

<br/>

> <details style="max-width: 700px; margin: auto;">

Reviewer: it seems like with the recent update to the Learn stylesheet, the width and margin settings are no longer needed.
```suggestion
<details>
```

  <summary>
    Here is what Matteo discovers with the documentation and Postman.
  </summary>

1. `get` `https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips`
1. Depends, but Matteo will note the shape of the expected JSON response

> 1. `post` `https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips`
> 1. `post`, and `https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips`

Reviewer 2: This seems repetitive 

```suggestion
1. `post` `https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips`
```

1. Required: `name`, `continent`, `category`, `weeks`, and `cost`. Optional: `about`

</details>

## Making a `POST` request

> 

Reviewer: The transition to jump into a post request is a bit sudden. Set the stage a bit.
```suggestion

Matteo wants to be able to add new Trip packages to the service, and from his initial research, that requires making a `POST` request.

```

> The syntax for making a POST request using `axios` is very similar to making a GET request, but we will use the `post` function instead.

Reviewer: some code formatting
keep the parallels all the way through
```suggestion
The syntax for making a `POST` request using `axios` is very similar to making a `GET` request, but instead of using the `get` function, `axios` provides a `post` function.
```

### An Aside: Working With Ambiguous Documentation

> What happens if Matteo [finds that the official `POST` request documentation is ambiguous](https://axios-http.com/docs/post_example), and he can't find more satisfactory resources?
> 
> For example, Matteo could go to the POST request page and see this code, with zero explanation:

Reviewer: be more explicit about what Matteo is looking for and where the deficiencies are
```suggestion
Matteo is going to need to make a `POST` request using `axios`, but sometimes a library's official documentation, even one as popular as `axios`, can be lacking in details.

For example, when he visits the [`POST` Requests](https://axios-http.com/docs/post_example) documentation, he finds this example code, with no further explanation:
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
axios.post('/user', {
    firstName: 'Fred',
    lastName: 'Flintstone'
  })
  .then(function (response) {
      console.log(response);
  })
  .catch(function (error) {
      console.log(error);
  });
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> The best thing for Matteo to do in this situation is:

Reviewer: turn the vagueness into an intentional decision to practice making code inferences
```suggestion
Matteo could perform additional web searches to find other documentation about the `post` method, but instead he decides to take this opportunity to practice making inferences from seeing how a method is used.

To practice this skill, Matteo will:
```

1. Make hypotheses, using context clues and what he knows about APIs
1. Test them

> 

Reviewer: include a consideration of the first argument
```suggestion

Matteo supposes that the string `'/user'` provided for the first argument to `post` is the URL of the endpoint. This mirrors the meaning of the first argument to a `get` call, so he feels good making this assumption.

```

> From this example code, we can see that the second argument for `axios.post` is this object literal:

Reviewer: rephrase to flow from the new paragraph above
```suggestion
Continuing with the example, he sees that the second argument for `axios.post` is this object literal:
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
{
    firstName: 'Fred',
    lastName: 'Flintstone'
}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> Matteo sees that there are two keys, `firstName` and `lastName`. From his knowledge of APIs, these keys don't look like they're describing parts of an HTTP request like HTTP headers or params. Additionally, this example request is being made to `/user`.
> 
> Matteo hypothesizes that this object literal holds the HTTP request body data, and he can test his hypothesis against his API.

Reviewer: we already talked about /user, so cut it here
explicitly comment on the difference between get and post here
move the hypothesis line into a new following paragraph
```suggestion
Matteo sees that there are two keys, `firstName` and `lastName`. From his knowledge of APIs, these keys don't look like they're describing parts of an HTTP request like HTTP headers or params. Unlike the `get` call, the second argument doesn't seem to hold "config" data, which was where the `get` call had passed its query params.

Matteo hypothesizes that this object literal holds the HTTP request body data.
```

> 

Reviewer: present the choice of validating against a known service vs. continuing on a bit more explicitly
```suggestion

Now, with an idea of how he can set the URL endpoint and the request data, Matteo could test his hypothesis against an API of his own to confirm it. Or if he's feeling confident, he can move on to working with his target API!

```

> ### Sending a Request to the Ada Trip Reserving Service™ Trip API™™™

Reviewer 2: 3 x `™`s?

Author: It was me being silly, I'll get around to deleting this some day.

> Matteo is ready to try to make a `POST` request to the back-end service. He [determines from the API documentation](https://github.com/AdaGold/trip-api) that the request he wants to make is:

Reviewer: make it clear that we are deciding to continue on
```suggestion
Matteo decides that he is ready to try to make a `POST` request to the back-end service. He [determines from the API documentation](https://github.com/AdaGold/trip-api) that the request he wants to make is:
```

- `POST` request to `https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips`
- Request Body:
  - `name`
  - `continent`
  - `about`
  - `category`
  - `weeks`
  - `cost`

> The `post` function takes in two parameters: URL, and an optional object. This optional object represents the HTTP request body data that we want to send.

Reviewer: the existing phrasing sounds definitive, but we are continuing on from Matteo's own tests, so let the phrasing reflect this
```suggestion
From the limited `axios` documentation, he has determined that the `post` function takes in two parameters: a URL, and an object. This object represents the HTTP request body data that we want to send.
```

Matteo could write this code:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> const axios = require("axios");
> 
> const tripData = {
>   name: "Matteo's Chill Trip to Chicago",
>   continent: "North America",
>   about: "A tour around good architecture and hot dogs.",
>   category: "casual",
>   weeks: 1,
>   cost: 180,
> };
> 
> axios
>   .post("https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips", tripData)
>   .then((response) => {
>     console.log("response:", response);
>     console.log("response data:", response.data);
>   })
>   .catch((error) => {
>     console.log("error:", error);
>     console.log("error response:", error.response);
>   })
>   .finally(() => {
>     console.log("finally done!");
>   });

Reviewer: update to preferred quotes
```suggestion
const axios = require('axios');

const tripData = {
  name: 'Matteo\'s Chill Trip to Chicago',
  continent: 'North America',
  about: 'A tour around good architecture and hot dogs.',
  category: 'casual',
  weeks: 1,
  cost: 180,
};

axios
  .post('https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips', tripData)
  .then((response) => {
    console.log('response:', response);
    console.log('response data:', response.data);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log('error:', error);
    console.log('error response:', error.response);
  })
  .finally(() => {
    console.log('finally done!');
  });
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

> With this code, Matteo can begin to make more `POST` requests in JavaScript!

Reviewer: finish up the narrative of Matteo's journey of discovery
```suggestion
Fingers crossed, Matteo runs his code. After a brief moment, he receives a successful response! With this working code, Matteo can begin to make more `POST` requests in JavaScript!
```

> 

Reviewer: if the reader is following along and runs the code, they'll get an error. add a callout to explain why
```suggestion

### !callout-warning

## Trip Names Must Be Unique

If we try running Matteo's code, we're likely to get an error! The Trip API requires the trip package names to be unique, and Matteo has already used the name in the example. But we can supply a new name to try running the code ourselves!

### !end-callout

```

Author: I actually didn't experience this... Hm, weird

Reviewer: I just double-checked. If I post a trip with the same name, I get a 400. And I remember checking in the model and seeing there's a uniqueness constraint on the name.

#### Refactoring: Inline `tripData`

> <details style="max-width: 700px; margin: auto;">

Reviewer: another chance to drop the extra style rules
```suggestion
<details>
```

  <summary>

>     Let's refactor our code! Instead of initializing the tripData variable, let's pass in an object literal.

Reviewer: add formatting to `tripData`
```suggestion
    Let's refactor our code! Instead of initializing the <code>tripData</code> variable, let's pass in an object literal.
```

  </summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> const axios = require("axios");
> 
> axios.post("https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips", {
>   name: "Matteo's Chill Trip to Chicago",
>   continent: "North America",
>   about: "A tour around good architecture and hot dogs.",
>   category: "casual",
>   weeks: 1,
>   cost: 180,
> });
> //   proceed as normal...
> //   .then((response) => { })
> //   .catch((error) => { })
> //   .finally(() => { });

Reviewer: update to preferred quotes
```suggestion
const axios = require('axios');

axios.post('https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips', {
  name: 'Matteo\'s Chill Trip to Chicago',
  continent: 'North America',
  about: 'A tour around good architecture and hot dogs.',
  category: 'casual',
  weeks: 1,
  cost: 180,
})
//   proceed as normal...
//   .then((response) => { })
//   .catch((error) => { })
//   .finally(() => { });
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

</details>

## Verifying Error Handling

Matteo wants to confirm that his code can handle unsuccessful HTTP requests.

> To confirm this, he will temporarily purposely make an API call with bad trip data.
> 
> He refactors his code to use a new object, `badTripData`, which has a blank `name`. According to [the API documentation](<(https://github.com/AdaGold/trip-api)>), it should not be a successful call.

Reviewer: to confirm this sounds repetitive with previous paragraph
this is NOT a refactor
```suggestion
To do so, he will temporarily make an API call with bad trip data on purpose.

He modifies his code to use a new object, `badTripData`, which has a blank `name`. According to [the API documentation](<(https://github.com/AdaGold/trip-api)>), it should not be a successful call.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> const axios = require("axios");
> 
> const badTripData = {
>   name: "",
>   continent: "North America",
>   about: "A tour around good architecture and hot dogs.",
>   category: "casual",
>   weeks: 1,
>   cost: 180,
> };
> 
> axios
>   .post("https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips", badTripData)
>   .then((response) => {
>     //
>   })
>   .catch((error) => {
>     console.log("error:", error);
>     console.log("error response:", error.response);
>   });

Reviewer: update to preferred quotes
brought down then body from above (on the whole, I think less confusing than the solitary comment)
```suggestion
const axios = require('axios');

const badTripData = {
  name: '',
  continent: 'North America',
  about: 'A tour around good architecture and hot dogs.',
  category: 'casual',
  weeks: 1,
  cost: 180,
};

axios
  .post('https://trektravel.herokuapp.com/trips', badTripData)
  .then((response) => {
    console.log('response:', response);
    console.log('response data:', response.data);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log('error:', error);
    console.log('error response:', error.response);
  });
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```
